So what is the AWS Database Migration Service?
AWS DMS lets you quickly and securely migrate the most widely used databases
to AWS while keeping the source database fully operational.
So,
why would you want to use DMS in order to get your data
from your source database into AWS?
First, it'll work with many of the popular databases that you might be using,
and we'll talk more about the individual ones later,
but it's likely if you're using one of the top open
source or commercial databases,
DMS will have support to help you move that into AWS.
It's also lower cost than many traditional migration services.
And if you compare some of the costs between DMS and other options,
you might be surprised by how much you could save.
Next,
with DMS, you're going to get minimal downtime between your own database that
you might still be relying on in your applications and an on‑premises
environment or another cloud and moving that over into DMS.
And it'll accomplish this in a few different ways by
allowing you to keep your database up and running while you
continue to move all the data over.
It's also relatively easy to use.
You'll set up some configuration with DMS and then be able to have it
migrate your data from your own databases over into AWS without having to
do too many of your own queries or your own analysis onto what needs to
move over and how to accomplish that.
So let's visualize a migration using DMS.
You might start with an on‑premises database,
or this could be a database inside of another cloud,
and then, you'd connect that to the Database Management Service,
providing it credentials for that database,
such as the usernames and passwords or the URL to connect to that database.
From there,
it would then run a series of tasks to move the data
over from the on‑premises environment,
or the first cloud that you have your data in,
and then take that data through those tasks that it's going to be
assigning to move pieces of data over into the target database and put
it inside of that database one piece at a time.
This is how everything works at a high level,
but we'll take a closer look in future sections.
Next,
let's look at some of the sources and targets that we can use when we want to move data from one database to the cloud.